we're receiving reports that several
people have been injured in southern
Israel in the city of ashalon following
rocket attacks video shows damage to
parts of residential buildings Israeli
emergency services are responding to the
scene Imran Khan has more from Tel
Aviv just after 3 p.m. local time loud
sirens were head where I am in central
Tel Aviv I counted at least eight
explosions local media uh saying that 10
explosions in total took place in the
South and uh east of uh Central Tel Aviv
uh then there was a message from the
Israelis via loudspeaker telling people
to remain in their shelter also we've
seen a rocket being fired from Gaza into
ashalon where two people were lightly
injured now where I am is actually
nicknamed hostage swear it's worth
showing you around uh this is
effectively the headquarters of the
bring them back campaign now their
meeting uh with the Israeli War cabinet
that's a meeting they've been asking for
almost since the War Began 60 days ago
um what they want from this meeting is
to find out exactly what the Israeli War
cabinet is doing to bring the remaining
captives back home however the slogan of
this campaign is not bring them back but
bring them back now they want this to be
done as quickly as possible and given
the intense pressure uh that the Israeli
War cabinet is under to fight this war
from the more far right elements of the
of uh the liid party which is the party
of both the defense minister and the
Prime Minister and the pressure that
they're under from the Americans to
allow humanitarian Aid in getting the
captives out is although a priority not
possibly a priority right this minute
and that's what these uh captives
families want they want these captives
to be released as quickly as possible
Imran Khan Al jazer Tel
Aviv all right now mayor zon is a senior
Israeli Analyst at the international
crisis group joins us now live from Tel
Aviv good to have you with us so first
of all let me start with a line that's
just been dropping about the Israeli
government saying to families of the
captives that they are unlikely to be
able to release all of the captives how
are families receiving this or likely to
receive this kind of this kind of
statement well I think the families of
the hostages that are still there are
absolutely up in arms about the what
seems like a decision by the Israeli
government uh when the truce fell apart
uh to go into Gaza uh and continue its
operation with full force and intensity
without providing any information on how
or when it will get back these hostages
and as the families have said the
hostages are the priority because they
are the ones whose lives are at stake
whereas the operation is something that
can happen after they are securely
brought back home so I think that there
is uh extreme pressure and extreme anger
amongst the families of the hostages and
the Israeli public at large that the
government doesn't really seem to be
providing a clear plan not only on how
to bring home the hostages but on how to
secure a victory uh what we're seeing I
mean the people who do see the images
from Gaza are seeing death and
destruction and we're not really seeing
so much of the achievement of the
military objective to bring down Hamas
so I think Israelis are very upset and
very
confused how um does the resumption of
Israeli strikes how does it impact
netanyahu's
position well netanyahu's position right
now seems quite secure uh he has the
full backing of the us to continue with
this war he has a far-right government
that some of them have been calling for
uh reoccupying Gaza for settling Gaza
now Israel claims that that's not uh its
objective but uh despite the fact that
most of the Israeli public is not happy
with Netanyahu and doesn't trust him
even before October 7th there doesn't
seem to be any kind of way to get him
out of office and so for now he's in
office and people are still in trauma
and in shock and and were at War and so
the situation is that the longer that
this uh operation continues it seems
like he'll be able to continue to remain
in his seat at the same time if Israel
isn't able to provide um achievements in
this operation I think Israelis will
will lose uh more and more of their
patience and there's also hundreds of
thousands of reservists uh who are you
know currently in the Army they're in
the North or in the South uh the economy
is being hurt so there is even an
internal time limit I think to this and
and there are more and more calls for
Netanyahu to step down this is something
that was going on a lot all of the last
all of this last year um I think that
will gain momentum but for the time
being netanyahu's
position is is quite strong and there is
consensus in Israel that he that it's
it's the right objective that it we need
to topple Hamas so in that sense um he's
in a pretty secure
place we know that Israel withdrew its
negotiating teams from qat do you think
negotiations are going to have to resume
at some point or how do you read the the
mind set right now amongst Israeli
decision makers do they just plan to go
ahead and continue this bombing campaign
endlessly well I think uh the reason for
bringing back the uh negotiating team
and whether or not some form of
negotiation is still going on you know
it's hard to tell it's hard to know
exactly what's happening I assume that
the actors Qatar Egypt the US and to an
extent Israel as well is is and Hamas
are they're interested in negotiating
forther releases but uh Israel is very
very adamant about uh a ground operation
to um to get to Hamas uh senior
officials I think they are very clearly
interested in trying to take out senoir
and they are determined to do that and
they they don't think that anything less
uh than toppling Hamas both militarily
and as far as its governing capabilities
will bring them security that's their
line now I don't I don't necessarily
think that that's an effective approach
but that's the approach that they've
chosen so it seems like they will
continue to do this until uh the US uh
steps up its pressure which does not
currently seem likely to make them stop
or the in general the humanitarian
disaster which we're seeing unfold in
Gaza starts to create more and more
pressure um but so far that doesn't seem
to be the case and if Israel is able to
both allow and ramp up humanitarian Aid
into the strip it seems like that will
be enough uh for the US to stand
down on that point we've heard from
people like 35 un experts on October
this 16th referred to a genocide in the
making as to what Israel's military
operation was doing how much awareness
of the Carnage is there amongst Israeli
public opinion how much focus is on
that there really isn't that much focus
on that because Israelis are completely
focused inwards uh they're focused
everybody has somebody that was either
taken captive or a victim of the October
7th attack and as it is as I'm sure your
audience knows uh the Palestinian issue
was sidelined and has been sidelined for
for decades really in Israeli Society uh
Israel has not had to pay a price for
its policies of occupation and
segregation uh and what some human
rights organizations of course call
apartheid so these are not the issues
that consume Israelis but of course the
October 7th attack changed that so now
Israelis are forced to deal with the
Palestinian issue on some level but
they're not dealing with it by you know
by seeing images of what's happening in
Gaza that's not that's not what's
happening in Israeli mainstream media
what we're seeing is just that Hamas is
a terrorist organization that it's evil
um and that it needs to be wiped out um
that's what Israelis understand and and
they are legitimately uh you know their
security was shattered the government
itself failed to secure and protect
Israelis on October 7th so um Israelis
are really just focused inward but I
think what they're going to have to
understand at some point is that it's
not just about trying to Decap you know
to incapacitate Hamas it's also about
changing an Israeli government and
making it so that Israel Israel and its
leadership can actually provide
stability and security something that we
still don't see after 60 days in Gaza
thanks so much mov on sign